So now we have a secondary user.
So we're gonna connect to our
secondary from our primary, right?
So the secondary is gonna be
the target machine and the primary
is gonna Is gonna be the machine that
we're going to connect to from primary.
So the next thing that we need to do
is we need to come over to primary.
And we're gonna do it from Ubuntu,
and the first thing we're
gonna do right now is we're
gonna say SSH key Gen-TRSA.
So if you have ever done,
like SSH keys for GitHub,
this is the same process, right?
Why would you do this?
Well, or
why does Git do that is because Git is
using SSH underneath the hood to connect.
So what is an SSH key then?
An SSH key is this like cryptographic
key that basically creates
a private version and
a public version of it.
The private version you never reveal
to anyone, that's like kinda like your
secret, and then you give your
public version to people.
And then using the private version and
public version it allows services
to do a handshake with each other.
That they never have to
reveal their private keys but
they can verify that the other party has
the private key that they say they have.
I'm not gonna get a lot more into
the cryptography of it because frankly,
I don't understand that much math.
But it's very interesting,
it's actually worth looking into.
Actually left a link there so you can
look into the Diffie–Hellman algorithm
which is kind of like the first asymmetric
cryptographic algorithm that came
about in the 70s from
two computer scientists.
I think they were at Berkeley, most things
come out of Berkeley, and Diffie–Hellman,
that kind of revolutionized how
we do cryptographic handshakes.
There's like yes, it's super interesting.
So, that's what this is, is we're gonna
generate that private and public key,
this public key we're gonna
give to the secondary and
then the private key
remains on the primary.
Or the private key remains the primary and
we never reveal that to anybody.
And then RSA is just like the particular
flavor of key that we're gonna generate.
Okay, so we're gonna generate a public and
private key.
It's gonna say this in SSH ID RSA.
That's exactly what we wanted.
So you're just gonna hit Enter.
You could put a passphrase here, for
our simplicity's sake right now
we're not gonna put a passphrase cuz
it would require you to enter
a passphrase to ever use this key.
Typically you should do that.
Like for example, if you're on
Mac you should generate that and
then you could add it to your key chain
that automatically goes in afterwards.
For now, let's just not put one.
Okay, so now, we have this key.
So if I go into my .ssh folder and
I look in here,
I have an RDSA and an RDF SA pub.
This one is the private one,
the ID_RSA and
one with pub with it is the public one.
So never reveal the private one to anyone.
And this is the pub one is one that
you give away to other people.
If you accidentally reveal your
private one, delete the file,
regenerate them because at that point
you can just consider it compromised.
And it's also really, as it should,
it's very easy to regenerate them,
so don't worry about that, okay?
So let's go back to secondary.
If you're not already logged in as your
secondary, like Brian's a switch user,
Brian or whatever you named your user.
I'm already logged in as Brian so,
I don't need to do that.
And I'm gonna make a directory of .ssh.
So now if I look here in my home directory
you see have the .ssh directory,
so I'm gonna cd into that.
And what I'm gonna do
now is I'm going to vi,
A file called authorized_keys.
Okay, I'm gonna come
back over to this one,
and I'm going to cat out my ID Rsa.pub,
and
you're gonna copy everything from this,
including the Ubuntu a primary part of it.
Okay, Now we're gonna go back over
to this one where I have it in vi.
I'm going to insert and
paste that in here.
And this is basically going to say,
here is a public SSH key that if someone
can verify that this is their key that
they have with their own private key,
allow them to log into this computer.
So it's like the username and
password for this user.
Okay, so I'm gonna write-quit that.
I'm going to have to sudo chmod this,
to be,
And I'm gonna do it for the directory so,
And put in the password.
Brian's on it,
Ccan I just do this without ch or sudo?
I can, cool.
Cool.
So I made that SSH1 rewrite and
execution for just the user, and
I'm going to ch mod 600,
SSH/authorized keys.
So now just it's locked down to just
this user, it's not anyone can go in and
read these keys which is
also good to have as well.
Okay, so what we've done so far is we
generated SSH keys on the primary so
that the primary can connect
to the secondary, right?
And that we took the keys from
the primary, the public key, and
we move that to the secondary server.
So that when this primary and
secondary handshake with each other they
can verify to each other is like,
you have the same key set, right?
That's kind of what's going on here.
I guess you can kind of think of it as
like the private key being like an actual
key, and you can think of the public key
being like handing someone a lock and
saying I have the key to this.
You can display this lock on your front
door that everyone can see that lock,
but only the person with the key can
unlock it with that with their key, right?
That's, I think mostly analogous.
I'm sure someone's sitting there thinking,
well, actually,
it's not that which is fine.
You can tell me in the chat or
tweet me or something.
Okay, so that's where we're at right now.
So we everything is all set up now.
Now, we need to get an IP
address from the secondary so
that the primary can
connect to the secondary.
So if I say I IF Config here, IF Config, I
actually end up using this command a lot.
This actually will just show you a bunch
of information about the computers placed
on the network.
So you can see here, it prints out
a bunch of numbers and broadcasts and
netmask and that kind of stuff.
I don't know what half of these means.
But the one that we're looking for
is actually this one, 192168643.
So this is my network address on this
network that I'm on at the moment.
And the network in this
particular case is just,
it's a fabricated virtual network on
my computer that multipass has created.
It's not even multipass,
I can actually access this from Mac OS,
right so it's actually
the the network on my computer.
This one down here you can see
this i-net here, this 127.0.0.1.
That's a special address
that's called the loopback, so
it's how a computer refers to itself.
So you've probably seen those mugs,
there's no place like 127.0.0.1,
that would be like your home, right?
So you can even see it says right here,
Local Loopback.
So it's how a computer can
refer to itself as an address.
This one here you can
see this says Ethernet.
This is actually like
the real network address.
So suffice to say, the one that we're
looking for here is 192.168.64.3.
Makes sense?
This one's interesting as well,
the netmask is 255255255,
means that these first three
numbers are locked in,
like they actually can't change for
this particular network.
And you can see
the broadcast is 192.168.64.
That means that's going to be those
numbers that are locked in that won't vary
for this network, and a .255 here means
that this is the number that varies.
So if we look at the various
different numbers,
it's only varying on that last number.
And then I think this
i-net is the ipv6 of it.
I never used those so I actually,
really not totally sure.
Anyway, here we go.
So, grab this i-net, this 192.168.64,
yours might be different than mine.
It might be the same, I'm not sure, but
this is the number that you're looking for
right here.
Okay?
And now, let's see,
What should work now?
So that's this was on secondary so
I got the IP off of secondary.
I'm gonna come back to my primary and
I'm gonna say ssh
brian@ that number,
It's gonna ask you is Are you sure?
The reason why it does this is if
the computer like the actual physical
server changes underneath you,
you'll know.
So this key is actually exchanges
like hey, I'm this server,
do you know that you trust this server?
And if you say yes, it's going to
store that on your computer and
say in the future it's gonna check that
every single time to make sure you're
connecting to the same server.
And if that server changes,
it's like, hey, something changed.
This is not the same computer
I was connecting to before and
it won't let you until you
resolve that situation.
And you can see here,
by doing that, I have now SSH.
So I have my primary computer
that's going over the network and
connected to the secondary.
And now we have set it up SSH.
So again, I can just say Exit, and
that will drop me back to Ubuntu,
and I can reconnect as much as I want.
Pretty cool, right?
So that's how you set up SSH.
It's actually quite easy for
the most part.
Our Ubuntu is already
running the SSH agent, so
there has to be something running in the
background that accepts these requests.
And by default, I think Ubuntu in
general just runs that by default.
But sometimes in some distributions,
you have to go and
install the correct SSH agent stuff and
get that started running.
I'm gonna show you how to do that, you
could very easily Google how to do that.
But it's cool because we don't have to
know the password or anything like that,
just by virtue of having those keys we
can set it up and it's really easy.
So like I do this stuff all the time
whenever I need to connect to a VM.
So here in secondary,
if I go into my .ssh folder,
you can see I created this
authorized keys file, right?
And if i vi this Authorized Keys file,
this is the public key from the primary,
right?
So I pasted that in
there from the primary,
like I generated that key on the primary.
I copied it, and then I pasted that into
the Authorized Keys on the secondary.
So now, this key,
whoever has the private version of this
key can log in as this user using SSH.
So the reason why this is Authorized Keys
is cuz you can have multiple different
users being able to connect to it so
I could create a tertiary, right, VM and
also paste its keys in here.
And it could also log into this as
long as its public key was in here,
if that makes any sense.
And that's really as complicated as it is,
there's nothing more to it.
>> Can you set up a third computer
to also SSH into secondary?
Would you just add another public key and
authorize?
>> Yes.
Cool.
>> Is the process the same
if I want to connect to a VM
running on VirtualBox while
I'm running Linux natively?
>> The process will be the same.
If you're doing this through VirtualBox,
you would stand up a second VM, so
like a second window that's
running a separate VM.
The only thing I'm not positive about and
I haven't tried, I think it should work is
you have to make sure that those two
VMs end up on the same network, right?
They need to be connected to
each other in some capacity.
I think VirtualBox does that by
default but I'd really have to check.
Yeah, you can also do this with Docker,
right?
And in some capacity, Docker kinda
does some of this stuff for you.
But you need to make sure that they
ended up on the same virtual network.
So yeah, that's the only thing to double
check, if you wanna do this using
VirtualBox, just make sure that
everything is on the same network.